This article will introduce you to the basic concepts of developing dapps (decentralized apps) on the Ethereum blockchain. We'll be using the Solidity programming language. While no programming experience is required to process this information, you'll understand it better if you come from a programming background or if you read the following introductory materials:

- [Introduction to Cryptocurrency][cc]
- [Introduction to Blockchain][bc]
- [What is Ethereum and how does it compare to Bitcoin?][eth]
- [What is Ethereum Gas?][gas]

We'll start by explaining and introducing the Solidity language, and how the apps you write in it execute.

---

## EVM, Ether, and Gas

You'll often hear people say that Bitcoin is the digital gold, and Ethereum digital silver. This is wrong. Ether (the [token][cc] of the Ethereum protocol) is _digital oil_. Just like plastic, makeup, rubber, petrol, etc. can be derived from oil, all sorts of other things can be built on Ethereum, and by that property alone it's much more valuable than Bitcoin.

The EVM - Ethereum Virtual Machine - is an environment inside the Ethereum client on your machine which executes the blockchain's code (whether it be code you wrote, or code someone else wrote). Yes - when you write a _dapp_ (decentralized app) or, in other words, an app on the Ethereum blockchain, its code is executed on every Ethereum miner's computer at the same time.

This is made possible through the concept of [gas], which makes sure you pay a fair amount of ether to the miners executing your code. We strongly recommend reading the linked post to get the full understanding of gas, but in a nutshell, gas is a unit of measure of work for computational operations. A summation of two values (`a + b`) costs 3 gas, a multiplication (`a * b`) is 5. The more operations your smart contract demands of the EVM, the more gas the transaction including that smart contract will require. Gas is paid in ether. Specifically, the [average gas cost][ethgas] is around 25 GWei now, and a GWei (or gigawei) is one billionth of ether.

Once a smart contract is deployed on the blockchain, its read-only properties are free to access, but calling specific methods in it which cause the blockchain's state to change will always cost gas. This cost will vary depending on how much of a rush the user is in, how clogged the network is, how complex the code behind the method being called is, and so on.

## Solidity

What you see below is some Solidity code.

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.0;

contract SimpleStorage {
    uint storedData;

    function set(uint x) {
        storedData = x;
    }

    function get() constant returns (uint) {
        return storedData;
    }
}
```

Let's go through it piece by piece and explain what's going on.

```

```

Explainer

### Data Types

Let's cover the data types Solidity supports.

## Tools

To start developing, you don't need a lot of tools. As in any programming language it depends how ambitious you and your project are.



## Conclusion

[cc]: https://bitfalls.com/2017/08/20/cryptocurrency/
[bc]: https://bitfalls.com/2017/08/20/blockchain-explained-blockchain-works/
[eth]: https://bitfalls.com/2017/09/19/what-ethereum-compare-to-bitcoin/
[gas]: https://bitfalls.com/2017/12/05/ethereum-gas-and-transaction-fees-explained/
[ethgas]: https://ethgasstation.info/