# Aragon Project - a blockchain based incorporation is coming
Earlier this year, young Louis Ivan [shared his new website](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=13616751) on Hacker News. The title said: “Aragon – Everything you need to run your company on Ethereum”. It instantly hit the top spot and drew thousands of visits to his page. Everybody in technology world knows that getting good visibility on Hacker News is priceless. Louis and his partner Jorge knew this, and they worked hard for months to prepare for it, they wanted to share their vision in a best way. And their vision was indeed worth the attention, and as it will turn out later, it was worth more than 25 million USD which is how much they have got from investors two months later in less than 20 minutes of their ICO.

This is a story about Aragon, a blockchain project with a giant mission of enabling everyone in the world to easily found and manage a company no matter where they live or what they do. Their vision is best presented in their own words: *"true global indiscriminatory economic growth"*.
*”Aragon lets everyone create value without borders or intermediaries. It is everything you need to operate your company or organizational structure, on Ethereum. Cap table, vesting, payments, voting, bylaws, fundraising and identity all in a beautiful, unified interface.”*

Tatu Karki, team's Communication Lead has provided us with more details about services which will be available on Aragon: *"..."*

## How is this even possible?
Decentralised technologies can make this possible, and [Aragon Whitepaper](github.com/aragon/whitepaper) recognizes this: *The properties of the Ethereum blockchain present unique opportunities for the creation and management of decentralized organizations, including immutability of records,transparency, and fast transactions.* Once you’ve created your company, you can start setting up the operating infrastructure: wallets, domains, databases and everything else you need to participate in the open market. Ethereum blockchain enables smart contracts to control various assets and certificates, and these smart contract themselves can be owned by Aragon companies. As the owner of a company, you control the roles and approve transactions. If there is more shareholders, you have voting power relative to your share in equity or by some other measure. By investing time and money to build high value relationships and social proof for your company, you can achieve the same and higher level of market trustworthiness and interoperability as that enjoyed by standard companies.

## Why is Aragon important?
In their classic on political economy, “[Why nations fail](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Why_Nations_Fail)”, authors Acemoglu and Robinson argue that inclusive institutions promote economic prosperity because they provide an incentive structure that allows talents and creative ideas to be rewarded. Flawed countries are known for limited access to open market and financial system, the exact definition of exclusive economic institutions. These rules are there to keep the current elites acquired positions. According to Acemoglu and Robinson’s framework, economic growth should change the economic resource distribution and thus affect political institutions. If only the people are easily able to start and run a business, avoid being expropriated or blackmailed in a way they are now, they could earn more, and support the change of suppressive regimes or exorbitant bureaucracies. We could see the greatest shift in wealth in the world in our lifetimes.

## Why would this work?
There are some things which are paramount to the normal operation of a company, but can’t be implemented quickly into new technology, these are mostly related to the functionality of a justice system. This might be a dealbreaker if you live and work in developed democracies of Western Europe or in United states, where the good framework is readily available and justice system is efficient and reliable. But if you come from any of more than [150 countries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democracy_Index) recognized as flawed democracies or not even democracies, you probably can’t wait to be able to establish and run a business unrelated to your state and local justice system. In Croatia for example, most businesses never actually use the courts in their business as it is expensive, inefficient and unreliable. In Venezuela or other countries where private business is highly regulated and regularly scrutinised, this could seem as a unique opportunity to get out of poverty. In the long run, it is actually quite possible that Aragon will provide overall better framework for your incorporation and conducting business than even the best state.
Generally, firms are beleived to exist to decrease the transaction costs. Those able to be more efficient in this mission will succeed on the market, and other will vanish. In the long term, the framework for running the firm is arguably subject to the same rule. The most efficient and adaptive will prevail, and there is every reason to believe that Aragon might be more successful at providing value to organisations than any state agency.

## How does Aragon work and what's the business model?
In april 2017 Aragon published a whitepaper which explains the key elements of the project: "Aragon is a decentralised application (shortly “dApp”) that lets anyone create and manage any kind of organization on Ethereum. Aragon implements basic features of an organization like a cap table, token transfers, voting, role assignments, fundraising, and accounting. The behavior of an Aragon organization is easily customized by changing the bylaws. In addition, Aragon organizations are extensible through third party modules that interact with the organizations’ contracts."
Aragon is an open source project with native token. Their token model is simple, Aragon dApp as a cornerstone of the network accepts payments in Aragon Network Token (ANT) only. All users of the services provided by Aragon dApp will have to pay for them in ANT and the demand for the service will drive the token's value up. Investors who believed in the future demand for this service bought the tokens in advance of the service being actually available, and the funds gathered this way are used to finance the development of the service.

It’s important to note also that Aragon i open source project. Being open source embraces the involvement of the community and discourages competition. Founders, investors, users and general public all have vested interests in success of such project. But unlike “old school” opensource projects, token model in Aragon enables those who have backed the project early to benefit financially in the case of successful global adoption of the project. This model enables the project to aim for becoming the main platform for running a business in a decentralised world. The danger of forking off the software and stealing the users through competing network is mitigated by democratising the governance. The voice and influence of the members of the network is allocated proportionately to their value to the network. Creative disruption or change is thus embedded into the network making it generally more likely to happen within the network than by forking.
All of the codebase is publicly available with commons label on Aragon Github repository. Anyone can fork it or pull request. Team communicates continuously with the members of the community through chat, and everything important is explained in blog posts.

## Who is behind the project?
The founders of Aragon are Louis Cuende and  are from Spain. Louis is Aragon's Project Lead, he was involved in the Bitcoin space since 2012 when he was 16. He cofounded Stampery - blockchain timestamping made easy. Last year he was chosen as Forbes 30 Under 30 and MIT TR35. Jorge is Aragon's Tech Lead, he has more than 5 year of experience in Apple app development, he worked as Mobile Lead at Ermes inc. and CTO at Unpatent. *Before building Aragon, Luis and Jorge were in Silicon Valley working on solving the problem of patent trolls with Unpatent. After figuring out how broken the underlying infrastructure of innovation is, they decided to focus all of their time in building the infrastructure that new companies and organizations will run on top of. *The rest of the team are: Maria Gomez, Tatu Karki, Luke Duncan, Olicer Nordbjerg, Pierre Bertet and Brett Sun.
Advisors to the project are: Mihai Alisie - Ethereum cofounder and AKASHA founder, Jake Burkhman - Cofounder at CoinFund, Kenny Rowe - COO of Dai Foundation and Brayton Williams - Founding Partner at Boost VC.
Early investors which [participated in the the presale](https://blog.aragon.one/pre-sale-transparency-report-333e310304c) are CoinFund, ICONOMI, ShapeShift, Joe Urgo, Daniele Levy and one anonymous Ethereum Founding member. Also, important backers are all participants from the ICO who have [invested 275,000ETH](https://blog.aragon.one/the-aragon-token-sale-the-numbers-12d03c8b97d3), equaling to $25M at the time. The ICO ensured not only a respectable sum of funding for the project but it has also recruited thousands of supporters to the network.

## What is the project progress so far?
As stated in [development plan](https://wiki.aragon.one/documentation/Development_Plan/), the project team is currently working on the 0.5 release called The refactor release, it's expected to be published by the end of 2017. In [Q3 Development update](https://blog.aragon.one/aragon-q3-development-update-ea69bc33f313), Jorge stated that: *"This release paves the way for Aragon to be an extendable governance tool which supports all possible use cases. It has required an immense amount of changes, including a re-architecturing called AragonOS."* Together with the development of the product, the team has expanded and it will grow even more during Q4, multiple technical and non-technical positions are [opened](https://wiki.aragon.one/jobs/). It seems that the project is managed well and it progresses according to the plan. Curious for the crypto world, ANT didn't have big price swings, it has traded above ICO price, but there was no big raises or crashes which surely is a good thing for a utility token.

## What are future plans?
It is expected that the first release on the mainnet will be deployed in February 2018 as a private beta. This will allow first companies to be created using Aragon on the mainnet. Tatu Karki, hase shared more details about this release and plans for Q12018:*"..."*

## How to invest in Aragon?
Total supply is 39,609,523.80952380954 ANT which is around $129M at the time this article is written. ANT are available for purchase and trade [in following exchanges](https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/aragon/#markets): Bittrex, Liqui, HitBTC, EtherDelta and Decentrex. You can also purchase them on ShapeShift. Average daily trading volume on these exchanges was around $1,5M, which makes it pretty liquid. If you are a long term investor and trading isn't your cup of tea, you can hold your ANT in your Ethereum address, since it's a [ERC20 token](https://etherscan.io/token/Aragon). Other than investing your money, you can invest your time and knowledge. The best ways are by pulling a request on one of [official Github repositories](https://github.com/aragon) or by contributing to discussion in [Aragon chat](chat.aragon.one).








