## INTRODUCTION

What is Ubiq? Where does he come from? Why would anyone be interested in it? In this article we will go through Ubiq's platform, its [cryptocurrency], the birth which occurred on the "distant" 28th of January 2017., and why would anyone potentially choose Ubiq over a giant like [Ethereum]. We also recommend you to read our article on [blockchain] technology upon which the Ubiq platform is based, and also for better understanding of terms being used in this article. 

## What is Ubiq?

[Ubiq] is a decentralized platform based on Ethereum and his ERC-20 protocol with upgraded levels of security and stability. The main purpose of the Ubiq platform is:

- programming smart contracts, 
- creation of dApps on its blockchain (we'll explain later in the article),
- to offer a stable and secure blockchain solution for enterprises and start-ups.

The platform was created as a fork of Ethereum network which isn't illegal nor forbidden (_ it's even encouraged for the sake of decentralization of the crypto world as a whole_). Hard fork happens when a new version of the protocol can't work with the existing one. In that case, there are two solutions: 

1. The developer team that suggested the change in the protocol creates a new cryptocurrency (as we saw with Bitcoin Core and Bitcoin Cash)
2. The upgraded protocol considers old blocks invalid and they are simply not accepted by the blockchain

Soft fork is a much smoother kind of change which we saw on a lot of cryptocurrencies. Soft fork happens when the upgraded blockchain generates new blocks which the old blockchain sees as valid ones and vice versa.

Ubiq (**UBQ**) is also the name of the [cryptocurrency] which is a mean of payment in the case of execution of smart contracts. The first name of the cryptocurrency was Coinmarketscoin which was created on the September of 2nd, 2014. It was based on scrypt-PoW consensus. On the October 23th, 2014. it became Jumbucks cryptocurrency. Jumbucks was based on Proof of Stake consensus and it gained acceptance from the community shortly after. Various developers contributed with their ideas, improved the platform, and gave meaning to decentralization. 

Jumbucks had existed until 28th of January, 2017. when it [evolved] to Ubiq which functions on [PoW] consensus. Everyone that owned any JBS cryptocurrency had the opportunity (and still have) to [swap] them for Ubiq in the ratio 1:10. Change to the ERC-20 protocol didn't happen until Ubiq was written,  which wasn't the case with Jumbucks and Coinmarketscoin.

The reason for moving on the Ethereum's upgraded protocol was the ability to build decentralized apps with very high stability that can mutually communicate which offers a great level of interoperability. You are probably asking yourself right now, what is a dApp? **Decentralized application**, or dApp (which is read as dee-app, like e-mail) currently doesn't have one definition that can explain to you what it is. In short, it all comes down to few basic points:

- The application must be completely open-source (which means that everybody can read, copy and use the code as they see it fit even if they plan to be a competition to Ubiq), it must operate autonomously, and with no entity controlling the majority of its tokens. The application may adapt its protocol in response to proposed improvements but all changes must be decided by consensus of its users/miners. 
- All data must be cryptographically stored on the public, decentralized blockchain. 
- Decentralized application must use a cryptographic token (cryptocurrency) so there can be an exchange of value on the platform, and to reward miners for discovering blocks and maintaining the system.
- Tokens must be generated by a standard algorithm which proves the value (PoW, PoS etc.).

In the case of Ubiq:

- Ubiq's system is completely open-source (it can be reviewed, used and copied from [GitHub]), it's completely autonomous, no one owns the majority of tokens.
- All the data on the transactions are public and can be viewed on [this] site (but you can't  find out who stands behind one's account; you can read more about it [here]), you can read about average block times, hash rates etc. 
- Cryptographic token that is used by the Ubiq platform is Ubiq (UBQ). It is used for paying the fees that are set in smart contracts. It is also used to pay gas to miners which depends on difficulty rate of the cryptographic problem set by the algorithm. Verifying a block grants miners 8 UBQ as a reward which will reduce to 7 by January/February of 2018. to control the inflation.
- Ubiq is generated by Dagger Hashimoto algorithm which functions on PoW consensus. 

In order to build a dApp on Ubiq's platform, it has to satisfy all above.

Also, developers reduced the amount of code needed to write a smart contract which resulted in lower gas prices used for building and executing a contract. All that gave more security to contracts which in case of [Ethereum] had a hole. It led to hacking of the DAO which we will tackle later in the article.  In the Fusion wallet, you can find links to examples of contracts used for building a token, starting a crowdsale, creating a blockchain organization etc. 

Ubiq cryptocurrency has a well-developed monetary policy which controls the rate of inflation. With it, they secured that mining can never become a fee-only market. Ubiq uses a difficulty algorithm which adjusts itself depending on the hash rate by analyzing the timestamps of the previous 2 hours worth of blocks which leads to an average block time of 88 seconds.

Ubiq was made without ICO which means that it's not outside of legal boundaries (let's recall to the [China ban]). Also, it wasn't premined which is really a growing trend. A lot of developers premine their cryptocurrency in a hope for a fast profit. If the Ubiq's developers want to get a hold of any Ubiq they also have to go online and buy some on the exchanges or mine it. Currently Ubiq is available on [Bittrex], [Cryptopia] and [Litebit].

## DEVELOPMENT TEAM

In order for everything to work smoothly, there are officially 3 developers and a community manager. But unofficially there are a lot of developers, enthusiasts, and hobbyists that contribute to the network with their unique skillset, sharp minds, and great will. 

The official team:

Julian Yap - developer, he has worked on cryptocurrency Decred, also some projects for Blocktech. He works full-time in Bittrex as senior blockchain engineer and his job there is to evaluate the code of the cryptocurrency that wants to join Bittrex. He went to Monash University where he studied business information systems, computer science. He was also an intern at IBM. 

Luke Williams - developer, well known in the blockchain community. Creator of Iquidus Explorer, a blockchain search tool. 

Kris Hansen - developer, but also a CTO in Koho. He even has great experience in the financial world where he worked for SAP.

Alex Sterk - community manager, maintains Ubiq's official pages, [Youtube channel], [Twitter], [Medium] and [Discord] (a place for everyone interested in Ubiq to join and talk from sports to price speculation). He represents Ubiq at conferences and spreads the word about Ubiq.

## UBIQ vs. ETHEREUM 

For you that are already involved in the crypto world, you must me asking yourself: what is the difference between Ethereum and Ubiq? Why would anyone choose Ubiq over Ethereum?

Imagine this situation: you are the owner of a big company that produces and distributes medicine. You read on our site about [blockchain] and [Ethereum] and you liked the concept. You came on the idea that you could store all your data about every drug from the moment of order, making the product, and all the way to the doors of drug stores and hospitals. Every possible info would be known, tamper-proof and reliable. You would even use smart contracts for payments and Ethereum's platform looks like the best choice. Or is it?

_Disclaimer: it's not in anyone's interest to put one cryptocurrency in front of the other, point the finger and say this one is better, this is one is bad etc. The whole meaning of decentralization is to give everyone as many options as they can have so that the user can find one that fits his exact needs. Here we will only show the difference between Ubiq and Ethereum. _

As we earlier mentioned, Ethereum had a bug in the code of smart contracts which resulted in a loss of funds. The case is known as the **DAO** (Decentralized Autonomous Organization) and the amount that was lost was staggering ~$50mln. Slock.it was a German company that presented its whitepaper in 2016. Their main idea was to make a decentralized investment fund on the Ethereum network that could be accessed by anyone owning Ether which would then be exchanged to DAO token. The community would vote on what projects to invest in, and the vote would have power depending on the amount of tokens the account had. 

The hacker (still unknown if it was one person or a group) has exploited the bug in the contract which was used if someone wanted to refund his investment. The bug was repeatedly used by the hacker and the problems arose. 

Panic emerged, people were in the fear of losing great amounts of money and it was no joke. 
The community had accepted the following solution: exploit the same bug as the hacker, transfer funds to other accounts from where people could withdraw their tokens. That idea was accepted by 97% of the community, and the other 3% was against it because it violates the fundamental principals of decentralization and blockchain technology. 

This is one of the most well-known examples of instability which drove enterprises away from the blockchain technology. 
Ethereum works in the way that developers first test the upgrade on the testnet and then it goes on the livenet, but that's not near the real world problems that may occur. Ethereum truly revolutionizes technology, but that also makes them be in a constant alpha-stage. 

Ubiq guaranties stability, bug-free environment and almost all upgrades from Ethereum after it's foolproof. Ethereum's network is in a constant alpha-stage which isn't a case with Ubiq. When everything is set and done on the Ethereum network, Ubiq can take those upgrades on its network (which is not illegal nor prohibited, in fact, it is encouraged for the sake of decentralization) and implement them securely.

It needs to be mentioned that Ubiq's developers don't just stand aside and wait for Ethereum to develop something new, they also work on their own solutions which are also very interesting!

## TOKENS ON THE UBIQ NETWORK AND ITS PROJECTS

Tokens on the Ubiq network:

1. Qwark
2. APX
3. GeoCoin
4. BitSeeds (soon)
5. Sphere (soon)

They use Ubiq's blockchain because of the stability it guarantees which is immensely important for enterprises that could benefit by using blockchain technology. It's also more profitable to use Ubiq's blockchain instead of maintaining their own.

In the case of Ubiq, stagnation is not an option. Here are some projects they have developed and some that are in the process:

- Pyrus online wallet; MyEtherWallet fork, can be used to make a paper wallet
- [Ledger nano S] integration
- Sparrow; fork of MetaMask, enables access through add-onn on Chrome for dApp developers 
- Signum; secure access device on the Ubiq blockchain; The system uses data points collected through NFC, RFID and 13 data points from a user’s fingerprint to assemble and broadcast a unique transaction. Artesia project is the first beta tester of the technology, they are a real estate and equity management platform.
- Geno Genesis is a supply chain management tool being developed for the medicinal marijuana industry. The goal for this tool is to ensure the integrity of legal and authorized supply chains. Signum devices will be used by growers and lab technicians with a mobile app for identity management further down the supply chain.
- A member of Ethereum Commonwealth going by the name Dexaran reached out to Ubiq and they came to an agreement to work on more projects in the future, now focusing on a decentralized token exchange.


 


## CONCLUSION

Ubiq certainly isn't like any other fork of Ethereum, it has its perks in the form of security, stability, dynamically adjustable difficulty algorithm, and relatively simple contracts. The main goal of Ubiq is to be an enterprise-ready blockchain solution and to be that it still has to make its mark on the market. 

What are your thoughts? Tell us in the comment section!



[cryptocurrency]:https://bitfalls.com/2017/08/20/cryptocurrency/
[Ethereum]:https://bitfalls.com/2017/09/19/what-ethereum-compare-to-bitcoin/
[blockchain]:https://bitfalls.com/2017/08/20/blockchain-explained-blockchain-works/
[Ubiq]:https://ubiqsmart.com/
[evolved]:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1763606.0
[PoW]:https://bitfalls.com/2017/08/20/blockchain-explained-blockchain-works/
[swap]:https://medium.com/the-ubiq-report/nucleus-transparency-report-6496e444bd85
[GitHub]:https://github.com/ubiq
[this]:https://ubiqscan.io/
[here]:https://bitfalls.com/2017/09/18/anonymous-cryptocurrencies-like-bitcoin/
[China ban]:https://bitfalls.com/2017/09/19/china-bans-cryptocurrency/
[Bittrex]:https://bittrex.com/
[Cryptopia]:https://www.cryptopia.co.nz/
[Litebit]:https://www.litebit.eu/
[Youtube channel]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCaKJfiYPY-gWC5932p23kyw
[Twitter]:https://twitter.com/ubiqsmart
[Medium]:https://medium.com/the-ubiq-report
[Discord]:https://discordapp.com/invite/HF6vEGF
[Ledger nano S]:https://bitfalls.com/2017/09/08/hardware-wallets-like-ledger-nano-s-work/
